well let's now bring in nebal farak
she's a spokeswoman for the Palestine
red cresant Society she joins me now
from rala nebal if you don't mind I want
to start with what I was just discussing
there with hany to try to get a clearer
overview we understand at least 60% of
Health Facilities have now had to stop
operations we were hearing there about
requests for for more evacuations how
many hospitals are functioning in Gaza
at the moment and what sort of services
are they able to offer at this
stage basically almost 16 house
hospitals out of 35 Hospital have
already went out of service due to
either bombardment or running out of a
fuel and medical supplies now the rest
of the hospitals are witnessing a
collapse they are literally collapsing
witnessing a severe shortage of medical
supplies and medicine as well as running
out of a fuel the situation H even in
Gaza and the another Northern is worth
sing day by day because of the Israel
prev ition of the arrival of Aid to the
north and Gaza it has completely
separate the Gaza and the north from the
south and now the aid is only getting
into the South but not of the aid is
getting into the north the Palestine red
crescent as a humanitarian organization
we are unable we along with other
humanitarian agencies who are working in
Gaza Strip up to this moment are unable
to allow the entry of Aid in Gaza and
the nether although hospitals are
extremely collapsing now they are
working in full capacity trying to save
as much people as they can although
people are now getting treated at the
ground in in hospitals Corridor because
uh already they are overwhelmed a high
number of casualties since Israel
intensify its air strikes in Gaza and
the North this comes with this extreme
shortage of medical supplies and
medicine and running out of a fuel but I
want to say an example alud hospital is
run by the Palestine red cresant we are
only 36 hours far and we will be
completely running out of a fuel for
alot hospital that means our hospital
will stop operating and that means our
patients who are correctly injured
connected to life support machines and
oxygen as long as also babies and
incubators will lose their life in hours
due to a complete cut of power since up
to this moment not even a one liter of
the fuel has been allowed to get into
Gaza because Israel refused to allow the
entry of a fuel to Gaza although it is
urgently needed fuel means life now we
are ours from a complete shutdown of all
hospitals in Gaza a complete also top of
all ambulances in Gaza ambulances need
fuel in order to continue operate even
truck Aid will also stop because
basically trucks need a fuel and then we
will be unable to receive the humanarian
aid or distributed as well as you say
fuel has been a huge huge problem we've
been hearing that everyone has been on
the cusp of of closing down at various
times we've been wondering how is anyone
at the moment still operating that there
were hospitals that were saying that
they were going to run out but some of
them have managed to continue
functioning in in some capacity are we
just seeing rationing take place here or
are there is there fuel being found
somewhere
else I'll tell you our example as the
Palestine R Cresent we run alot hospital
we have been preserving energy in
unprecedented ways I don't think none of
the hospitals in the world will do that
could you imagine that we turn off the
ators all day long and then just turn it
on when there's emergency cases getting
into the hospital when uh when we
operate the generators for oxygen to
have oxygen for our patients who are
connected to to oxygen machines we have
to turn off the AC from the Intensive
Care Unit to preserve to preserve energy
as much as we can we are literally
trying trying our our best to continue
providing our life saving services in
Gaza we are the lead Emergency Medical
Service in Gaza we uh work our
ambulances is in ground trying to save
uh people's life however already three
ambulances stopped because running out
of gasoline I just got a call from my
colleague he told me that five
ambulances in the northern are on the
way to complete stop because they
already run out of gasoline the
situation is just catastrophic we have
been trying our best to continue
providing our humanitarian services our
life saving services in Gaza however we
have been left alone up to this moment
the International Community have failed
to support the humanity in Gaza have
failed even to support us as a
humanitarian agency to continue
providing our life saving Services up to
this moment International Community
can't even allow the entry of nonstop
humanitarian in Gaza including a fuel
nbal I know that the conditions are are
truly terrible there on the ground you
talked about having to turn off oxygen
turn off ventilators to to turn off the
machines that are keeping people
including newborn children alive have we
seen seen these things take place at
other hospitals that have had to shut
down absolutely and now all hospitals
are just just working from their
humanitarian Mission they are trying to
continue working to the last second in
order to support the civilians in Gaza
who are been under intense bombardments
that is taking place for over a month
with this large number of casualties and
people who have been killed most of them
are children and women so continue
operating that doesn't mean that the
case is well the situation in all
hospitals is already catastrophic and we
are on our way for a complete shutdown
for all hospitals that means over two
million civilians in Gaza they are not
only with no food water uh medicine uh
Power and even fuel they soon will be
without even medical care services
without even Emergency Medical Services
that means Palestinians will have to die
under the rubble because there will be
no ambulances that could transfer them
to the hospitals that at at that time
hospitals will be completely shut down
that mean we urge the International
Community we urge all world leaders to
intervene immediately to intervene
immediately to ensure first the
protection of civilians and Health Care
personnel and hospitals who should be
protected under International
humanitarian law to ensure the allow of
Entry of humanitarian Aid unconditional
nonstop safe humanitarian Aid into Gaza
including the fuel to save thousands of
others Palestinians who might lose their
life due to this complete blockade Nal
farak there a spokeswoman for the
Palestine red Cresent Society describing
some of the conditions that their very
brave medical staff are working in in
Gaza thank you so much for joining us
nabal and we really wish you and your
teams all the
best thank you